Spotify Track Popularity Predictor

The goal of this project was to predict the Track Popularity based on Audio Features defined by Spotify Web API. 
I used Spotify Web API to build the dataset with track names, audio features and track popularity. After cleaning the data and performing EDA, 
the column “track_pop” is converted from numerical to categorical target. I built multiple classification models using Logistic Regression and 
Decision Tree based Ensemble algorithms. After comparing metrics for each model, I finalized on a Random Forest Classifier with Hyperparameter tuning. 


MOTIVATION
Spotify is a Swedish audio streaming company that has taken over globally, with 33 million monthly active users, including 188 million paying subscribers, 
as of June 2022. The company offers a developer-friendly Web API with easy access to streaming data metrics. This project is focused on the 
Audio Features APIs available for getting audio metrics such as Danceability, Energy, Speechiness etc for every track. 

The popularity of a track has a range between 0 and 100, with 100 being the most popular. The popularity is calculated by algorithm and is based, 
in the most part, on the total number of plays the track has had and how recent those plays are. A classification model to classify a track as 
Popular or Not based on audio features would help Spotify as well as record companies analyze whether a track has the potential to be popular before 
its launch. 


DATA
Spotify Audio Features dataset: https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/rodolfofigueroa/spotify-12m-songs  
The first dataset is in .csv format and will be downloaded and loaded into a SQL database The dataset includes 1.2M+ songs along with 
respective audio features such as tempo, energy etc for each.

Spotify Web API: https://developer.spotify.com/documentation/web-api/reference/#/operations/get-track
Spotify’s Web API will be used to fetch the genre label for each track in the first dataset to train and validate the classification mode

